---
layout: page
title: Syllabus
description: >-
    Class' Syllabus
---


# About
{:.no_toc}

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

---

## About

This is both a topics and skills course.  The topics relate to determinants of
human well-being over the short and long-run, with a focus on the role of
environmental factors in shaping development outcomes.  The skills relate to
gaining facility with main methods that underlie quantitative research in the
environmental social sciences, including econometric concepts related to causal
inference, data wrangling skills, and data visualization.  Assignments and
class time will also be aimed at practicing critical components of the research
pipeline that are often not taught, including how to come up with a good
research question, how to effectively frame your research findings, and how to
make more compelling visualizations of your results.  Students will get the
most out of the course if they arrive with a working knowledge of R (or
comparable programming environment) and some previous exposure to econometric
methods or upper-level statistics related to causal inference. 


The course has the following learning goals:
 - Knowledge and literacy on the "big questions" at the intersection of
   environment and development
 - Facility with the main methods that underlie quantitative work in the
   environmental social sciences, including a working understanding of the key
   methods for causal inference in observational data, the ability to process
   spatial data, and the ability to implement foundational econometric
   techniques and interpret the results.
 - An improved ability to navigate the research production pipeline -- i.e. to
   execute the skills needed to generate a paper that other people want to
   read, and that you can get published.  This includes the ability to generate
   research ideas (many of them bad), to wrangle data, to conduct analysis, to
   make nice figures, and to frame your results in a broad and interesting way


## Assignments

We will have three different assignments for each week: a paper reading, a data
visualization task, and a problem set. We will distribute the assignments on this webpage, 


## Academic Accommodations

Stanford is committed to providing equal educational opportunities for disabled
students. Disabled students are a valued and essential part of the Stanford
community. We welcome you to our class.

If you experience disability, please register with the Office of Accessible
Education (OAE). Professional staff will evaluate your needs, support
appropriate and reasonable accommodations, and prepare an Academic
Accommodation Letter for faculty. To get started, or to re-initiate services,
please visit [oae.stanford.edu](https://oae.stanford.edu).

If you already have an Academic Accommodation Letter, we invite you to share
your letter with us. Academic Accommodation Letters should be shared at the
earliest possible opportunity so we may partner with you and OAE to identify
any barriers to access and inclusion that might be encountered in your
experience of this course. Students who are immunocompromised should register
with the OAE as soon as possible.

Student athletes who anticipate challenges in being able to participate in
class or submit assignments on time should speak to a course instructor or
teaching assistant as soon as possible about available alternatives or
allowances.



